Routers support LANs and WANs and can interconnect different types of networks; therefore, they support many types of interfaces. For example, G2 ISRs have one or two integrated Gigabit Ethernet interfaces and High-Speed WAN Interface Card (HWIC) slots to accommodate other types of network interfaces, including serial, DSL, and cable interfaces.

To be available, an interface must be:

- **Configured with at least one IP address** - Use the **ip address** _ip-address subnet-mask_ and the **ipv6 address** _ipv6-address/prefix_ interface configuration commands.
- **Activated** - By default, LAN and WAN interfaces are not activated (**shutdown**). To enable an interface, it must be activated using the **no shutdown** command. (This is similar to powering on the interface.) The interface must also be connected to another device (a hub, a switch, or another router) for the physical layer to be active.
- **Description** - Optionally, the interface could also be configured with a short description of up to 240 characters. It is good practice to configure a description on each interface. On production networks, the benefits of interface descriptions are quickly realized as they are helpful in troubleshooting and in identifying a third-party connection and contact information.

The following example shows the configuration for the interfaces on R1.

```
R1(config)# interface gigabitethernet 0/0/0
R1(config-if)# ip address 192.168.10.1 255.255.255.0 
R1(config-if)# ipv6 address 2001:db8:acad:1::1/64 
R1(config-if)# description Link to LAN 1
R1(config-if)# no shutdown
R1(config-if)# exit
R1(config)# interface gigabitethernet 0/0/1
R1(config-if)# ip address 192.168.11.1 255.255.255.0 
R1(config-if)# ipv6 address 2001:db8:acad:2::1/64 
R1(config-if)# description Link to LAN 2
R1(config-if)# no shutdown
R1(config-if)# exit
R1(config)# interface serial 0/0/0
R1(config-if)# ip address 209.165.200.225 255.255.255.252 
R1(config-if)# ipv6 address 2001:db8:acad:3::225/64 
R1(config-if)# description Link to R2
R1(config-if)# no shutdown
R1(config-if)# exit
R1(config)#
```