Another common configuration of Cisco IOS routers is enabling a loopback interface.

The loopback interface is a logical interface that is internal to the router. It is not assigned to a physical port and can never be connected to any other device. It is considered a software interface that is automatically placed in an “up” state, as long as the router is functioning.

The loopback interface is useful in testing and managing a Cisco IOS device because it ensures that at least one interface will always be available. For example, it can be used for testing purposes, such as testing internal routing processes, by emulating networks behind the router.

Loopback interfaces are also commonly used in lab environments to create additional interfaces. For example, you can create multiple loopback interfaces on a router to simulate more networks for configuration practice and testing purposes. In this curriculum, we often use a loopback interface to simulate a link to the internet.

Enabling and assigning a loopback address is simple:

```
Router(config)# interface loopback number 
```

```
Router(config-if)# ip address ip-address subnet-mask 
```

Multiple loopback interfaces can be enabled on a router. The IPv4 address for each loopback interface must be unique and unused by any other interface, as shown in the example configuration of loopback interface 0 on R1.

```
R1(config)# interface loopback 0
R1(config-if)# ip address 10.0.0.1 255.255.255.0
R1(config-if)# exit
R1(config)#
%LINEPROTO-5-UPDOWN: Line protocol on Interface Loopback0, changed state to up
```

[[Module 1 Basic Device Configuration |◀ Module 1 Table of Contents]]