If the network layer appears to be functioning as expected, but users are still unable to access resources, then the network administrator must begin troubleshooting the upper layers. Two of the most common issues that affect transport layer connectivity include ACL configurations and NAT configurations. A common tool for testing transport layer functionality is the Telnet utility.

**Caution:** While Telnet can be used to test the transport layer, for security reasons, SSH should be used to remotely manage and configure devices.

**Troubleshooting Example**

A network administrator is troubleshooting a problem where they cannot connect to a router using HTTP. The administrator pings R2 as shown in the command output.

```
R1# ping 2001:db8:acad:2::2
Type escape sequence to abort.
Sending 5, 100-byte ICMP Echos to 2001:DB8:ACAD:2::2, timeout is 2 seconds:
!!!!!
Success rate is 100 percent (5/5), round-trip min/avg/max = 2/2/3 ms
R1#
```

R2 responds and confirms that the network layer, and all layers below the network layer are operational. The administrator knows the issue is with Layer 4 or up and must start troubleshooting those layers.

Next, the administrator verifies that they can Telnet to R2 as shown in the command output.

```
R1# telnet 2001:db8:acad:2::2
Trying 2001:DB8:ACAD:2::2 ... Open
User Access Verification
Password:
R2> exit
[Connection to 2001:db8:acad:2::2 closed by foreign host]
R1#
```

The administrator has confirmed that Telnet services is running on R2. Although the Telnet server application runs on its own well-known port number 23 and Telnet clients connect to this port by default, a different port number can be specified on the client to connect to any TCP port that must be tested. Using a different port other than TCP port 23 indicates whether the connection is accepted (as indicated by the word “Open” in the output), refused, or times out. From any of those responses, further conclusions can be made concerning the connectivity. Certain applications, if they use an ASCII-based session protocol, might even display an application banner, it may be possible to trigger some responses from the server by typing in certain keywords, such as with SMTP, FTP, and HTTP.

For example, the administrator attempts to Telnet to R2 using port 80.

```
R1**# telnet 2001:db8:acad:2::2 80
Trying 2001:DB8:ACAD:2::2, 80 ... Open
^C
HTTP/1.1 400 Bad Request
Date: Mon, 04 Nov 2019 12:34:23 GMT
Server: cisco-IOS
Accept-Ranges: none
400 Bad Request
[Connection to 2001:db8:acad:2::2 closed by foreign host]
R1#
```
The output verifies a successful transport layer connection, but R2 is refusing the connection using port 80.