NAT solves our problem of not having enough IPv4 addresses, but it can also create other problems. This topic addresses the advantages and disadvantage of NAT.

NAT provides many benefits, including the following:

- NAT conserves the legally registered addressing scheme by allowing the privatization of intranets. NAT conserves addresses through application port-level multiplexing. With NAT overload (PAT), internal hosts can share a single public IPv4 address for all external communications. In this type of configuration, very few external addresses are required to support many internal hosts.
- NAT increases the flexibility of connections to the public network. Multiple pools, backup pools, and load-balancing pools can be implemented to ensure reliable public network connections.
- NAT provides consistency for internal network addressing schemes. On a network not using private IPv4 addresses and NAT, changing the public IPv4 address scheme requires the readdressing of all hosts on the existing network. The costs of readdressing hosts can be significant. NAT allows the existing private IPv4 address scheme to remain while allowing for easy change to a new public addressing scheme. This means an organization could change ISPs and not need to change any of its inside clients.
- Using RFC 1918 IPv4 addresses, NAT hides the IPv4 addresses of users and other devices. Some people consider this a security feature; however, most experts agree that NAT does not provide security. A stateful firewall is what provides security on the edge of the network.