NAT does have drawbacks. The fact that hosts on the internet appear to communicate directly with the NAT-enabled device, rather than with the actual host inside the private network, creates a number of issues.

One disadvantage of using NAT is related to network performance, particularly for real time protocols such as VoIP. NAT increases forwarding delays because the translation of each IPv4 address within the packet headers takes time. The first packet is always process-switched going through the slower path. The router must look at every packet to decide whether it needs translation. The router must alter the IPv4 header, and possibly alter the TCP or UDP header. The IPv4 header checksum, along with the TCP or UDP checksum must be recalculated each time a translation is made. Remaining packets go through the fast-switched path if a cache entry exists; otherwise, they too are delayed.

The forwarding delays caused by the NAT process becomes more of an issue as the pools of public IPv4 addresses for ISPs become depleted. Many ISPs are having to assign customers a private IPv4 address instead of a public IPv4 address. This means the customer's router translates the packet from its private IPv4 address to the private IPv4 address of the ISP. Before forwarding the packet to another provider, the ISP will then perform NAT again, translating its private IPv4 addresses to one of its limited number of public IPv4 addresses. This process of two layers of NAT translation is known as Carrier Grade NAT (CGN).

Another disadvantage of using NAT is that end-to-end addressing is lost. This is known as the end-to-end principle. Many internet protocols and applications depend on end-to-end addressing from the source to the destination. Some applications do not work with NAT. For example, some security applications, such as digital signatures, fail because the source IPv4 address changes before reaching the destination. Applications that use physical addresses, instead of a qualified domain name, do not reach destinations that are translated across the NAT router. Sometimes, this problem can be avoided by implementing static NAT mappings.

End-to-end IPv4 traceability is also lost. It becomes much more difficult to trace packets that undergo numerous packet address changes over multiple NAT hops, making troubleshooting challenging.

Using NAT also complicates the use of tunneling protocols, such as IPsec, because NAT modifies values in the headers, causing integrity checks to fail.

Services that require the initiation of TCP connections from the outside network, or stateless protocols, such as those using UDP, can be disrupted. Unless the NAT router has been configured to support such protocols, incoming packets cannot reach their destination. Some protocols can accommodate one instance of NAT between participating hosts (passive mode FTP, for example), but fail when both systems are separated from the internet by NAT.