The cost value must be an integer. If something less than an integer is calculated, OSPF rounds up to the nearest integer. Therefore, the OSPF cost assigned to a Gigabit Ethernet interface with the default reference bandwidth of 100,000,000 bps would equal 1, because the nearest integer for 0.1 is 0 instead of 1.

**Cost = 100,000,000 bps / 1,000,000,000 = 1**

For this reason, all interfaces faster than Fast Ethernet will have the same cost value of 1 as a Fast Ethernet interface. To assist OSPF in making the correct path determination, the reference bandwidth must be changed to a higher value to accommodate networks with links faster than 100 Mbps.

Changing the reference bandwidth does not actually affect the bandwidth capacity on the link; rather, it simply affects the calculation used to determine the metric. To adjust the reference bandwidth, use the **auto-cost reference-bandwidth** _Mbps_ router configuration command.

```
Router(config-router)# auto-cost reference-bandwidth Mbps
```

This command must be configured on every router in the OSPF domain. Notice that the value is expressed in Mbps; therefore, to adjust the costs for Gigabit Ethernet, use the command **auto-cost reference-bandwidth 1000**. For 10 Gigabit Ethernet, use the command **auto-cost reference-bandwidth 10000**.

To return to the default reference bandwidth, use the **auto-cost reference-bandwidth 100** command.

Whichever method is used, it is important to apply the configuration to all routers in the OSPF routing domain. The table shows the OSPF cost if the reference bandwidth is adjusted to accommodate 10 Gigabit Ethernet links. The reference bandwidth should be adjusted anytime there are links faster than FastEthernet (100 Mbps).

| Interface Type                  | Reference Bandwidth in bps |     | Default Bandwidth in bps | cost |
| ------------------------------- | -------------------------- | --- | ------------------------ | ---- |
| 10 Gigabit Ethernet <br>10 Gbps | 10,000,000,000             | ÷   | 10,000,000,000           | 1    |
| Gigabit Ethernet<br>1 Gbps      | 10,000,000,000             | ÷   | 1,000,000,000            | 10   |
| Fast Ethernet<br>100 Mbps       | 10,000,000,000             | ÷   | 100,000,000              | 100  |
| Ethernet<br>10 Mbps             | 10,000,000,000             | ÷   | 10,000,000               | 1000 |

Use the **show ip ospf interface g0/0/0** command to verify the current OSPFv2 cost assigned to the R1 GigabitEthernet 0/0/0 interface. Notice how it displays a cost of 1. Then, after adjusting the reference bandwidth, the cost is now 10. This will allow for scaling to 10 Gigabit Ethernet interfaces in the future without having adjust the reference bandwidth again.

**Note:** The **auto-cost reference-bandwidth** command must be configured consistently on all routers in the OSPF domain to ensure accurate route calculations.

```
R1# show ip ospf interface gigabitethernet0/0/0
GigabitEthernet0/0/0 is up, line protocol is up   
  Internet Address 10.1.1.5/30, Area 0, Attached via Interface Enable  
  Process ID 10, Router ID 1.1.1.1, Network Type POINT_TO_POINT, Cost: 1
(output omitted)
R1# config t
Enter configuration commands, one per line.  End with CNTL/Z.
R1(config)# router ospf 10
R1(config-router)# auto-cost reference-bandwidth 10000
% OSPF: Reference bandwidth is changed.
  Please ensure reference bandwidth is consistent across all routers.
R1(config-router)# do show ip ospf interface gigabitethernet0/0/0
GigabitEthernet0/0 is up, line protocol is up  
  Internet address is 172.16.1.1/24, Area 0  
  Process ID 10, Router ID 1.1.1.1, Network Type BROADCAST, Cost: 10  
  Transmit Delay is 1 sec, State DR, Priority 1
(output omitted)
```

[[Module 2 Single-Area OSPFv2 Configuration|◀ Module 2 Table of Contents]]