In the previous topology, S1 is connecting two users on VLAN 10. DAI will be configured to mitigate against ARP spoofing and ARP poisoning attacks.

As shown in the example, DHCP snooping is enabled because DAI requires the DHCP snooping binding table to operate. Next, DHCP snooping and ARP inspection are enabled for the PCs on VLAN10. The uplink port to the router is trusted, and therefore, is configured as trusted for DHCP snooping and ARP inspection.

```
S1(config)# ip dhcp snooping 
S1(config)# ip dhcp snooping vlan 10 
S1(config)# ip arp inspection vlan 10
S1(config)# interface fa0/24
S1(config-if)# ip dhcp snooping trust
S1(config-if)# ip arp inspection trust
```

DAI can also be configured to check for both destination or source MAC and IP addresses:

- **Destination MAC** – Checks the destination MAC address in the Ethernet header against the target MAC address in ARP body.
- **Source MAC** – Checks the source MAC address in the Ethernet header against the sender MAC address in the ARP body.
- **IP address** – Checks the ARP body for invalid and unexpected IP addresses including addresses 0.0.0.0, 255.255.255.255, and all IP multicast addresses.

The **ip arp inspection validate {[src-mac] [dst-mac] [ip]}** global configuration command is used to configure DAI to drop ARP packets when the IP addresses are invalid. It can be used when the MAC addresses in the body of the ARP packets do not match the addresses that are specified in the Ethernet header. Notice in the following example how only one command can be configured. Therefore, entering multiple **ip arp inspection validate** commands overwrites the previous command. To include more than one validation method, enter them on the same command line as shown and verified in the following output.

```
S1(config)# ip arp inspection validate ?
dst-mac  Validate destination MAC address
  ip       Validate IP addresses  
  src-mac  Validate source MAC address
S1(config)# ip arp inspection validate src-mac
S1(config)# ip arp inspection validate dst-mac
S1(config)# ip arp inspection validate ip
S1(config)# do show run | include validate
ip arp inspection validate ip 
S1(config)# ip arp inspection validate src-mac dst-mac ip
S1(config)# do show run | include validate
ip arp inspection validate src-mac dst-mac ip 
S1(config)#
```