Some Cisco switches have a proprietary protocol that lets them automatically negotiate trunking with a neighboring device. This protocol is called Dynamic Trunking Protocol (DTP). DTP can speed up the configuration process for a network administrator. Ethernet trunk interfaces support different trunking modes. An interface can be set to trunking or nontrunking, or to negotiate trunking with the neighbor interface. Trunk negotiation is managed by DTP, which operates on a point-to-point basis only, between network devices.

DTP is a Cisco proprietary protocol that is automatically enabled on Catalyst 2960 and Catalyst 3650 Series switches. DTP manages trunk negotiation only if the port on the neighbor switch is configured in a trunk mode that supports DTP. Switches from other vendors do not support DTP.

**Caution:** Some internetworking devices might forward DTP frames improperly, which can cause misconfigurations. To avoid this, turn off DTP on Cisco switch interfaces that are connected to devices that do not support DTP.

The default DTP configuration for Cisco Catalyst 2960 and 3650 switches is dynamic auto.

To enable trunking from a Cisco switch to a device that does not support DTP, use the **switchport mode trunk** and **switchport nonegotiate** interface configuration mode commands. This causes the interface to become a trunk, but it will not generate DTP frames.

```
S1(config-if)# switchport mode trunk
S1(config-if)# switchport nonegotiate
```

To re-enable dynamic trunking protocol use the `switchport mode dynamic auto` command.

```
S1(config-if)# switchport mode dynamic auto
```

If the ports connecting two switches are configured to ignore all DTP advertisements with the **switchport mode trunk** and the **switchport nonegotiate** commands, the ports will stay in trunk port mode. If the connecting ports are set to dynamic auto, they will not negotiate a trunk and will stay in the access mode state, creating an inactive trunk link.

When configuring a port to be in trunk mode, use the **switchport mode trunk** command. Then there is no ambiguity about which state the trunk is in; it is always on.

[[Module 3 VLANs|◀ Module 3 Table of Contents]]