Until recently, certain cable types (straight-through or crossover) were required when connecting devices. Switch-to-switch or switch-to-router connections required using different Ethernet cables. Using the automatic medium-dependent interface crossover (auto-MDIX) feature on an interface eliminates this problem. When auto-MDIX is enabled, the interface automatically detects the required cable connection type (straight-through or crossover) and configures the connection appropriately. When connecting to switches without the auto-MDIX feature, straight-through cables must be used to connect to devices such as servers, workstations, or routers. Crossover cables must be used to connect to other switches or repeaters.

With auto-MDIX enabled, either type of cable can be used to connect to other devices, and the interface automatically adjusts to communicate successfully. On newer Cisco switches, the **mdix auto** interface configuration mode command enables the feature. When using auto-MDIX on an interface, the interface speed and duplex must be set to **auto** so that the feature operates correctly.

The command to enable auto-MDIX is issued in interface configuration mode on the switch as shown:

```
S1(config-if)# mdix auto
```

**Note:** The auto-MDIX feature is enabled by default on Catalyst 2960 and Catalyst 3560 switches but is not available on the older Catalyst 2950 and Catalyst 3550 switches.

To examine the auto-MDIX setting for a specific interface, use the **show controllers ethernet-controller** command with the **phy** keyword. To limit the output to lines referencing auto-MDIX, use the **include MDIX** filter. As shown the output indicates On or Off for the feature.

```
S1# show controllers ethernet-controller fa0/1 phy | include MDIX
Auto-MDIX           :  On   [AdminState=1   Flags=0x00052248]
```