Use the following steps to configure a Cisco IOS DHCPv4 server:

**Step 1**. Exclude IPv4 addresses.  
  
  
  
**Step 2**. Define a DHCPv4 pool name.  
  
  
  
**Step 3**. Configure the DHCPv4 pool.

**Step 1. Exclude IPv4 Addresses**

The router functioning as the DHCPv4 server assigns all IPv4 addresses in a DHCPv4 address pool unless it is configured to exclude specific addresses. Typically, some IPv4 addresses in a pool are assigned to network devices that require static address assignments. Therefore, these IPv4 addresses should not be assigned to other devices. The command syntax to exclude IPv4 addresses is the following:

```
Router(config)# ip dhcp excluded-address low-address [high-address]
```

A single address or a range of addresses can be excluded by specifying the _low-address_ and _high-address_ of the range. Excluded addresses should be those addresses that are assigned to routers, servers, printers, and other devices that have been, or will be, manually configured. You can also enter the command multiple times.


**Step 2. Define a DHCPv4 Pool Name**

Configuring a DHCPv4 server involves defining a pool of addresses to assign.

As shown in the example, the **ip dhcp pool** _pool-name_ command creates a pool with the specified name and puts the router in DHCPv4 configuration mode, which is identified by the prompt Router(dhcp-config)#.

The command syntax to define the pool is the following:

```
Router(config)# ip dhcp pool pool-name    
Router(dhcp-config)#
```



**Step 3. Configure the DHCPv4 Pool**

The table lists the tasks to complete the DHCPv4 pool configuration.

The address pool and default gateway router must be configured. Use the **network** statement to define the range of available addresses. Use the **default-router** command to define the default gateway router. Typically, the gateway is the LAN interface of the router closest to the client devices. One gateway is required, but you can list up to eight addresses if there are multiple gateways.

Other DHCPv4 pool commands are optional. For example, the IPv4 address of the DNS server that is available to a DHCPv4 client is configured using the **dns-server** command. The **domain-name** command is used to define the domain name. The duration of the DHCPv4 lease can be changed using the **lease** command. The default lease value is one day. The **netbios-name-server** command is used to define the NetBIOS WINS server.


| **Task**                               | **IOS Command**                                    |
| -------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------- |
| Define the address pool.               | `network network-number [mask \| / prefix-length]` |
| Define the default router or gateway.  | `default-router address [ address2….address8]`     |
| Define a DNS server.                   | `dns-server address [ address2…address8]`          |
| Define the domain name.                | `domain-name domain`                               |
| Define the duration of the DHCP lease. | `lease {days [hours [ minutes]] \| infinite}`      |
| Define the NetBIOS WINS server.        | `netbios-name-server address [ address2…address8]` |
**Note:** Microsoft recommends not deploying WINS, instead configure DNS for Windows name resolution and decommission WINS.