It may be desirable to change the OSPF timers so that routers detect network failures in less time. Doing this increases traffic, but sometimes the need for quick convergence is more important than the extra traffic it creates.

**Note:** The default Hello and Dead intervals are based on best practices and should only be altered in rare situations.

OSPFv2 Hello and Dead intervals can be modified manually using the following interface configuration mode commands:

```
Router(config-if)# ip ospf hello-interval seconds
```

```
Router(config-if)# ip ospf dead-interval seconds
```

Use the **no ip ospf hello-interval** and **no ip ospf dead-interval** commands to reset the intervals to their default.

In the example, the Hello interval for the link between R1 and R2 is changed to 5 seconds. Immediately after changing the Hello interval, the Cisco IOS automatically modifies the Dead interval to four times the Hello interval. However, you can document the new dead interval in the configuration by manually setting it to 20 seconds, as shown.

As displayed by the highlighted OSPFv2 adjacency message, when the Dead Timer on R1 expires, R1 and R2 lose adjacency. The reason is because the R1 and R2 must be configured with the same Hello interval. Use the **show ip ospf neighbor** command on R1 to verify the neighbor adjacencies. Notice that the only neighbor listed is the 3.3.3.3 (R3) router and that R1 is no longer adjacent with the 2.2.2.2 (R2) neighbor.

```
R1(config)# interface g0/0/0 
R1(config-if)# ip ospf hello-interval 5 
R1(config-if)# ip ospf dead-interval 20 
R1(config-if)# 
*Jun  7 04:56:07.571: %OSPF-5-ADJCHG: Process 10, Nbr 2.2.2.2 on GigabitEthernet0/0/0 from FULL to DOWN, Neighbor Down: Dead timer expired 
R1(config-if)# end 
R1# show ip ospf neighbor 
Neighbor ID     Pri   State           Dead Time   Address         Interface
3.3.3.3           0   FULL/  -        00:00:37    10.1.1.13       
GigabitEthernet0/0/1
R1#
```

To restore adjacency between R1 and R2, the R2 Gigabit Ethernet 0/0/0 interface Hello interval is set to 5 seconds, as shown in the following example. Almost immediately, the IOS displays a message that adjacency has been established with a state of FULL. Verify the interface intervals using the **show ip ospf interface** command. Notice that the Hello time is 5 seconds and that the Dead Time was automatically set to 20 seconds instead of the default 40 seconds.

```
R2(config)# interface g0/0/0
R2(config-if)# ip ospf hello-interval 5
*Jun  7 15:08:30.211: %OSPF-5-ADJCHG: Process 10, Nbr 1.1.1.1 on GigabitEthernet0/0/0 from LOADING to FULL, Loading Done
R2(config-if)# end
R2# show ip ospf interface g0/0/0 | include Timer  
	Timer intervals configured, Hello 5, Dead 20, Wait 20, Retransmit 5
R2# show ip ospf neighbor
Neighbor ID     Pri   State           Dead Time   Address         Interface
3.3.3.3           0   FULL/  -        00:00:38    10.1.1.10       
GigabitEthernet0/0/1
1.1.1.1           0   FULL/  -        
	00:00:17    10.1.1.5        GigabitEthernet0/0/0
R2#
```