Many network problems are initially reported by an end user. However, the information provided is often vague or misleading. For example, users often report problems such as “the network is down”, “I cannot access my email”, or “my computer is slow”.

In most cases, additional information is required to fully understand a problem. This usually involves interacting with the affected user to discover the “who”, “what”, and “when” of the problem.

The following recommendations should be employed when communicate with user:

- Speak at a technical level they can understand and avoid using complex terminology.
- Always listen or read carefully what the user is saying. Taking notes can be helpful when documenting a complex problem.
- Always be considerate and empathize with users while letting them know you will help them solve their problem. Users reporting a problem may be under stress and anxious to resolve the problem as quickly as possible.

When interviewing the user, guide the conversation and use effective questioning techniques to quickly ascertain the problem. For instance, use open questions (i.e., requires detailed response) and closed questions (i.e., yes, no, or single word answers) to discover important facts about the network problem.

The table provides some questioning guidelines and sample open ended end-user questions.

When done interviewing the user, repeat your understanding of the problem to the user to ensure that you both agree on the problem being reported.

|**Guidelines**|**Example Open Ended End-User Questions**|
|---|---|
|Ask pertinent questions.|- What does not work?<br>- What exactly is the problem?<br>- What are you trying to accomplish?|
|Determine the scope of the problem.|- Who does this issue affect? Is it just you or others?<br>- What device is this happening on?|
|Determine when the problem occurred / occurs.|- When exactly does the problem occur?<br>- When was the problem first noticed?<br>- Were there any error message(s) displayed?|
|Determine if the problem is constant or intermittent.|- Can you reproduce the problem?<br>- Can you send me a screenshot or video of the problem?|
|Determine if anything has changed.|What has changed since the last time it did work?|
|Use questions to eliminate or discover possible problems.|- What works?<br>- What does not work?|