Basic wireless setup includes the following steps:

1. **View the WLAN defaults.**
	- Out of the box, a wireless router provides wireless access to devices using a default wireless network name and password. The network name is called the Service Set Identified (SSID). Locate the basic wireless settings for your router to change these defaults.
2. **Change the network mode.**
	- Some wireless routers allow you to select which 802.11 standard to implement. The example shows that “Legacy” has been selected. This means wireless devices connecting to the wireless router can have a variety of wireless NICs installed. Today’s wireless routers configured for legacy or mixed mode most likely support 802.11a, 802.11n, and 802.11ac NICs.
3. **Configure the SSID.**
	- Assign an SSID to the WLANs. OfficeNet is used in the example for all three WLANs (the third WLAN is not shown). The wireless router announces its presence by sending broadcasts advertising its SSID. This allows wireless hosts to automatically discover the name of the wireless network. If the SSID broadcast is disabled, you must manually enter the SSID on each wireless device that connects to the WLAN.
4. **Configure the channel.**
	- Devices configured with the same channel within the 2.4GHz band may overlap and cause distortion, slowing down the wireless performance and potentially break network connections. The solution to avoid interference is to configure non-overlapping channels on the wireless routers and access points that are near to each other. Specifically, channels 1, 6, and 11 are non-overlapping. In the example, the wireless router is configured to use channel 6.
5. **Configure the security mode.**
	- Out of the box, a wireless router may have no WLAN security configured. In the example, the personal version of Wi-Fi Protected Access version 2 (WPA2 Personal) is selected for all three WLANs. WPA2 with Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) encryption is currently the strongest security mode.
6. **Configure the passphrase.**
	- WPA2 personal uses a passphrase to authenticate wireless clients. WPA2 personal is easier to use in a small office or home environment because it does not require an authentication server. Larger organizations implement WPA2 enterprise and require wireless clients to authenticate with a username and password.