The following two-step process is performed on every Ethernet frame that enters a switch.

**Step 1. Learn - Examining the Source MAC Address**

Every frame that enters a switch is checked for new information to learn. It does this by examining the source MAC address of the frame and port number where the frame entered the switch:

- If the source MAC address does not exist in the MAC address table, the MAC address and incoming port number are added to the table.
- If the source MAC address does exist, the switch updates the refresh timer for that entry. By default, most Ethernet switches keep an entry in the table for five minutes. If the source MAC address does exist in the table but on a different port, the switch treats this as a new entry. The entry is replaced using the same MAC address, but with the more current port number.

**Step 2. Forward - Examining the Destination MAC Address**

If the destination MAC address is a unicast address, the switch will look for a match between the destination MAC address of the frame and an entry in its MAC address table:

- If the destination MAC address is in the table, it will forward the frame out of the specified port.
- If the destination MAC address is not in the table, the switch will forward the frame out all ports except the incoming port. This is called an unknown unicast. If the destination MAC address is a broadcast or a multicast, the frame is also flooded out all ports except the incoming port.

[[Module 2 Switching Concepts|◀ Module 2 Table of Contents]]