When the root bridge has been elected for a given spanning tree instance, the STA starts the process of determining the best paths to the root bridge from all destinations in the broadcast domain. The path information, known as the internal root path cost, is determined by the sum of all the individual port costs along the path from the switch to the root bridge.

**Note:** The BPDU includes the root path cost. This is the cost of the path from the sending switch to the root bridge.

When a switch receives the BPDU, it adds the ingress port cost of the segment to determine its internal root path cost.

The default port costs are defined by the speed at which the port operates. The table shows the default port costs suggested by IEEE. Cisco switches by default use the values as defined by the IEEE 802.1D standard, also known as the short path cost, for both STP and RSTP. However, the IEEE standard suggests using the values defined in the IEEE-802.1w, also known as long path cost, when using 10 Gbps links and faster.

**Note:** RSTP is discussed in more detail later in this module.

| Link Speed | STP Cost: IEEE 802.1D-1998 | RSTP Cost: IEEE 802.1w-2004 |
| ---------- | -------------------------- | --------------------------- |
| 10 Gbps    | 2                          | 2,000                       |
| 1 Gbps     | 4                          | 20,000                      |
| 100 Mbps   | 19                         | 200,000                     |
| 10 Mbps    | 100                        | 2,000,000                   |
Although switch ports have a default port cost associated with them, the port cost is configurable. The ability to configure individual port costs gives the administrator the flexibility to manually control the spanning tree paths to the root bridge.