Creating VLANs, like most other aspects of networking, is a matter of entering the appropriate commands. This topic details how to configure and verify different types of VLANs.

Different Cisco Catalyst switches support various numbers of VLANs. The number of supported VLANs is large enough to accommodate the needs of most organizations. For example, the Catalyst 2960 and 3650 Series switches support over 4,000 VLANs. Normal range VLANs on these switches are numbered 1 to 1,005 and extended range VLANs are numbered 1,006 to 4,094. The figure illustrates the default VLANs on a Catalyst 2960 switch running Cisco IOS Release 15.x.

```
Switch# show vlan brief
VLAN Name              Status   Ports
---- ----------------- -------  --------------------1    default           active   Fa0/1, Fa0/2, Fa0/3, Fa0/4                                Fa0/5, Fa0/6, Fa0/7, Fa0/8                                Fa0/9, Fa0/10, Fa0/11, Fa0/12                                Fa0/13, Fa0/14, Fa0/15, Fa0/16                                Fa0/17, Fa0/18, Fa0/19, Fa0/20                                Fa0/21, Fa0/22, Fa0/23, Fa0/24                                Gi0/1, Gi0/21002 fddi-default                     act/unsup1003 token-ring-default               act/unsup1004 fddinet-default                  act/unsup1005 trnet-default                    act/unsup
```

**Normal Range VLANs**

The following are characteristics of normal range VLANs:

- They are used in all small- and medium-sized business and enterprise networks.
- They are identified by a VLAN ID between 1 and 1005.
- IDs 1002 through 1005 are reserved for legacy network technologies (i.e., Token Ring and Fiber Distributed Data Interface).
- IDs 1 and 1002 to 1005 are automatically created and cannot be removed.
- Configurations are stored in the switch flash memory in a VLAN database file called vlan.dat.
- When configured, VLAN trunking protocol (VTP), helps synchronize the VLAN database between switches.

**Extended Range VLANs**

The following are characteristics of extended range VLANs:

- They are used by service providers to service multiple customers and by global enterprises large enough to need extended range VLAN IDs.
- They are identified by a VLAN ID between 1006 and 4094.
- Configurations are saved, by default, in the running configuration.
- They support fewer VLAN features than normal range VLANs.
- Requires VTP transparent mode configuration to support extended range VLANs.

**Note:** 4096 is the upper boundary for the number of VLANs available on Catalyst switches, because there are 12 bits in the VLAN ID field of the IEEE 802.1Q header.

[[Module 3 VLANs|◀ Module 3 Table of Contents]]