To verify the OSPFv2 adjacencies, use the **show ip ospf neighbor** command, as shown in the example for R1. The state of neighbors in multiaccess networks can be as follows:

- **FULL/DROTHER** - This is a DR or BDR router that is fully adjacent with a non-DR or BDR router. These two neighbors can exchange Hello packets, updates, queries, replies, and acknowledgments.
- **FULL/DR** - The router is fully adjacent with the indicated DR neighbor. These two neighbors can exchange Hello packets, updates, queries, replies, and acknowledgments.
- **FULL/BDR** - The router is fully adjacent with the indicated BDR neighbor. These two neighbors can exchange Hello packets, updates, queries, replies, and acknowledgments.
- **2-WAY/DROTHER** - The non-DR or BDR router has a neighbor relationship with another non-DR or BDR router. These two neighbors exchange Hello packets.

The normal state for an OSPF router is usually FULL. If a router is stuck in another state, it is an indication that there are problems in forming adjacencies. The only exception to this is the 2-WAY state, which is normal in a multiaccess broadcast network. For examples, DROTHERs will form a 2-WAY neighbor adjacency with any DROTHERs that join the network. When this happens, the neighbor state displays as 2-WAY/DROTHER.

````tabs
tab: R1 Adjacencies
The output generated by R1 confirms that R1 has adjacencies with the following routers:

- R2 with router ID 2.2.2.2 is in a Full state and the role of R2 is BDR.
- R3 with router ID 3.3.3.3 is in a Full state and the role of R3 is DR.
<br/>
```
R1# show ip ospf neighbor 
Neighbor ID     Pri   State           Dead Time   Address         Interface
2.2.2.2           1   FULL/BDR        00:00:31    192.168.1.2     GigabitEthernet0/0/0
3.3.3.3           1   FULL/DR         00:00:39    192.168.1.3     GigabitEthernet0/0/0
R1#
```

tab: R2 Adjacencies
The output generated by R2 confirms that R2 has adjacencies with the following routers:

- R1 with router ID 1.1.1.1 is in a Full state and R1 is neither the DR nor BDR.
- R3 with router ID 3.3.3.3 is in a Full state and the role of R3 is DR.
<br/>
```
R2# show ip ospf neighbor 
Neighbor ID     Pri   State           Dead Time   Address         Interface
1.1.1.1           1   FULL/DROTHER    00:00:31    192.168.1.1     GigabitEthernet0/0/0
3.3.3.3           1   FULL/DR         00:00:34    192.168.1.3     GigabitEthernet0/0/0
R2#
```


tab: R3 Adjacencies
The output generated by R3 confirms that R3 has adjacencies with the following routers:

- R1 with router ID 1.1.1.1 is in a Full state and R1 is neither the DR nor BDR.
- R2 with router ID 2.2.2.2 is in a Full state and the role of R2 is BDR.
<br/>
```
R3# show ip ospf neighbor 
Neighbor ID     Pri   State           Dead Time   Address         Interface
1.1.1.1           1   FULL/DROTHER    00:00:37    192.168.1.1     GigabitEthernet0/0/0
2.2.2.2           1   FULL/BDR        00:00:33    192.168.1.2     GigabitEthernet0/0/0
R3#
```
````

[[Module 2 Single-Area OSPFv2 Configuration|◀ Module 2 Table of Contents]]